.nh
.TH "ENVCTL" "1" "Jan 2026" "uRadical" "envctl manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
envctl-env-apply - Run a command with environment variables applied


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBenvctl env apply [flags] --  [args...]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Run a command with environment variables from the ops chain applied.

.PP
Unlike 'env use', this command does NOT write a .env file to disk.
Instead, it decrypts the variables and passes them directly to the
subprocess environment. This is more secure as secrets never touch
the filesystem.

.PP
The variables are only accessible to the spawned process and its
children. They are not visible to other processes on the system.

.PP
Local overrides:
If a file named .env. exists (e.g., .env.dev), variables
defined there will override the shared secrets from the ops chain.
This is useful for personal settings like local database URLs.
Use --no-overrides to ignore local override files.

.PP
Use '--' to separate envctl flags from the command to run.

.PP
Examples:
  envctl env apply -- npm start
  envctl env apply -e prod -- ./deploy.sh
  envctl env apply --no-overrides -- npm start
  envctl env apply -- sh -c 'echo $MY_SECRET'


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB-e\fP, \fB--env\fP=""
	target environment (default: current environment)

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for apply

.PP
\fB--no-overrides\fP[=false]
	ignore local .env. override file


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--config\fP=""
	config file (default $HOME/.config/envctl/config.toml)

.PP
\fB--lang\fP=""
	language for messages (default: auto-detect)

.PP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--verbose\fP[=false]
	verbose output


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBenvctl-env(1)\fP


.SH HISTORY
.PP
6-Jan-2026 Auto generated by spf13/cobra
